4 s. meones, uranon. [nac. 6.

termed Childermas-day, so it is celebrated and
solemnized by the preferment of children in all great
⁸ cathedral churches3 which give the child this day
the prerogative above men, in token that they took
place of men for their martyrdom in the cause of the
blessed child Jesus ¹.''

¹When the child-bishop died during the term of his
office, he was buried with the honour due to his tem-
porary rank, and in his pontifical attire, aa all the
bishops of the Church then were. In the cathedral
of Salisbury there is at this day a monument of a
child-bishop‚ representing the effigy of a boy episco-
pally arrayed‚ and in the act of giving the blessing.
This custom is said to have' been in England since
the fourteendr century3 'bnt' it was known in foreign
countries before that time' lt was abolished by King
Henry VIII. {1115423 and was restored by Queen
Mary in 1554. At her death it was again put down,
and has n'ever been revived. Among other principal
churches and colleges where it was celebrated in
England were York, St. Paul's in London‚ Beverley‚
Winchester, Eton, Gloucester‚ Rotherham‚ and Salis-
bury. Strype says almost every parish had its child-
bishop. It was known also in France‚ Germany,
Switzerland, and Spain. In the inventories of the
ornaments and plate of several churches are enume-
rated mitres and rings of great richness and beauty,
“ for the use os the child-bishop.” Some antiquarians
connect the ancient plays called Moralitieo, and the
Mummings of the Feast of Fools and the Abbat of
Misrule, with the ceremonias of the chorister-bishop‚
but without very good reason. The modern “ Eton

¹ Malcolm’e Londinium Rediuiuum.

 

