uer 3.] rursurrou or rus sorr cnoss. 191

on its site a temple of Venus had been built. The
Emperor Adrian had also built a temple of Jupiter
near the same place, that the Christiane might no

longer pay their devotione at the sacred spot. The
Jews had buried the Cross on which the Redeemer

. died, along with the other instrumente of His pas·

sion, near the place where He suffered, as was their
custom with criminals; the demon rejoicing, as S.

· Ambrose remarks, to hide from the eyes of men the

sword with which he had been pierced. The
Christian writers say that this long concealment was
designed to save those precious instrumente from the
rnalice of the enemies of Christ, till His disciples
were able to guard them, and pay them becoming
honour.

S. Helena then in 326 was seized with an anxious
desire to recover the Cross, and to remove the pro-
fane buildings which covered the places where the
Lord's blessed footsteps had been. But she found
the search most difficule, sor no one then living had
ever heard of its place of concealment. As the best
means. of finding it, she made careful inquiry at the
oldest inhabitants, both Christiane aud learned lewe,
as to the probable place os the sepulchre. Having
been directed to the most likely spot, she levelled
all the buildings which stood upon it, and ordered
the earth and rubbish to be removed till the old soil
should ‘be laid bare. Aster digging to a great depth,
the Sepulchre was discovered, aud on examining,
further, three crosses were found, and the title fixed
to one of them, as some of the historians say, though
according to the greater number it was lying separate
from the crosses The number of the nails which

 

