192 tuvaurrou or rrrrr noar caoss. [aar 3.

were found at the same time has been variously
stated, but it seems probable that there were four, as
the feet of a person who was crucified were gene·
rally supported by a board to which each foot was
nailed separately. No mention is made of the nails
of the two thiaves, and hence probably they are
usually represented as bound to their crosses. This
may perhaps explain the necessity which the Jews

were under to hasten their death by additional vio- ,

leuce, though itis byno means necessary to suppose
that they were not nailed‚ in order to account for

this. The history which describes the title as de· ,

tached from the Cross, proceeds to record the diffi-
culty which was found in distinguishing among the
crosses which was the Lord's. Macarius bishop of
Jerusalem proposed that they should be carned toa
sick lady in the city, not doubting that God would
honour the wood of the Redeemer’s Crosa by restor-
ing her to health. and it happened as he had

expected.

S. Helena thus rewarded for her reverent care, Ἴ

“ adored in this sacred wood‚” says Tillemont quot-
ing from St. Ambrose‚ “not the wood itself'which
would have been the error of the heathen, but the
King of Heaven Who had been fixed to the wood.”
She sent a portion of it to Constantine, which was
removed to Paris in the thirteenth century during
the reign of S. Louis. The rest she enclosed in a
rich case, and entrusted it to the care of the hishop

of Jerusalem. He from time to time exposed it to Ι

the devout veneration of the faithful, and distributed

small portions of it among them. S. Cyril and S.
Paulinus testify that it remained undiminished by

 

