uer 19.] s. noussen, nncnsrsuor. 209

took the vows of a monk in the presence of Alphege,
who in due time also ordained him priest. He was
appointed to the churoh of the blessed Virgin Mary,
to whom his parents had specially dedicated him. ’
S. Alphege the Bald was formerly honoured by the
English Church on the lst September.

The life of S. Dunstan at this time seems to have
been eremitieal. He made a cell for himself in an
unfrequented place, near Glastonbury, five feet long,
two and a half wide, and of the height of a man,
with one small window and a door. llere he de-
voted himself, by the help of God, to subdue the
remains of earthly passions which yet impeded his
course towards perfectiori. The conflict was often
terrible. whether, like his divine Master and the
blessed Antony‚ he was ever called to a personal
struggle with the enemy of man none may now pre·
sume to determine. He is so related to have been,
by those who have written the history of his life.
By prayer and fasting the tempter was finally over-

, come.

’ During these years K. Athelstan had died, and
had been succeeded, in 940, by his brother Edmund.

, The new sovereign invited S. Dunstan back to court,

but he soon again forfeited the royal favour, and
was sent away in disgrace. He probably retired to

. Fleury, a Benedictine monastery in France, where

he first learned the Rule of S. Benedict. The king
soon relented, and recalled S. Dunstan3 in couse-
quence, as some say, ofa vow which he had made
when his life was exposed to imminent danger in
hunting. Others attribute it to the joyous event of
the birth of bis son Edgar in 944. On his retum

1³

 

